# generate pronounceable, easy-to-remember, yet safe, passwords (a PHP port of GNU pwgen)

## Overview

pwgen-php is a simple PHP class which aims to clone the GNU pwgen functionality. It's designed to be used in existing scripts/projects.

The pwgen class generates passwords which are designed to be easily memorized by humans, while being as secure as possible. Human-memorable passwords are never going to be as secure as completely random passwords. In particular, passwords generated by pwgen without the secure-option should not be used in places where the password could be attacked via a brute-force attack. On the other hand, completely randomly generated passwords have a tendency to be written down, and are subject to being compromised in that fashion.

## Usage

Generating a password is as simple as creating a new PWGen object and invoking the generate() function on it:

### Generating a Password

```php
<?php 
use Scc\PWGen\Password;

$pwgen = new Password(); 
$password = $pwgen->generate(); 
echo $password; 
```

The output could be Theik0Sa, for example.

### Generating Lots of Passwords

If you want to generate several passwords, it's wise in terms of performance and memory consumption, to use an existing $pwgen object multiple times. Every time you invoke the generate() function, a new password is generated.

```php
use Scc\PWGen\Password;
$pwgen = new Password(); 
for($i=0; $i < 1000000; $i++) { 
    $password = $pwgen->generate(); echo $password;
}
```

## License

pwgen-php may be distributed under the terms of the GPL License. 
Please also took a look at http://code.google.com/p/pwgen-php/issues/detail?id=1&can=1'>iusse #1

Copyright © 2017 by Jérôme Fix
Copyright © 2009 by Superwayne (PHP port)
Copyright © 2001, 2002 by Theodore Ts'o (C version)
